## Socio-Technical Systems design

Socio-technical systems design (STSD) methods are an approach to design that consider human, social and organisational factors, as well as technical factors in the design of organisational systems. 

The underlying premise of socio-technical thinking is that systems design should be a process that takes into account both social and technical factors that influence the functionality and usage of computer-based systems. The rationale for adopting socio-technical approaches to systems design is that failure to do so can increase the risks that systems will not make their expected contribution to the goals of the organisation. Systems often meet their technical ‘requirements’ but are considered to be a ‘failure’ because they do not deliver the expected support for the real work in the organisation. The source of the problem is that techno-centric approaches to systems design do not properly consider the complex relationships between the organisation, the people enacting business processes and the system that supports these processes.[R2]

The term socio-technical systems was originally coined by Emery and Trist (1960) to describe systems that involve a complex interaction between humans, machines and the environmental aspects of the work system—nowadays, this interaction is true of most enterprise systems. The corollary of this definition is that all of these factors—people, machines and context—need to be considered when developing such systems using STSD methods. In reality, these methods are more akin to philosophies than the sorts of design methods that are usually associated with systems engineering (Mumford, 2006). STSD methods mostly provide advice for sympathetic systems designers rather than detailed notations and a process that should be followed.

R1: [Socio-technical systems: From design methods to systems engineering](Socio-technical systems: From design methods to systems engineering)
